Add Mailmodo to Segment Doc (#2747)
segmentio/segment-docs: src/connections/destinations/catalog/mailmodo/index.md

---
title: Mailmodo Destination
rewrite: true
id: 623a07123d307e60f268a1c2
---

> [Mailmodo](https://www.mailmodo.com/){:target="_blank"} is a powerful email marketing tool focused on bringing the interactive experience of the AMP framework to emails. It allows businesses to create emails with web page-like interactivity right inside the user inbox, thereby increasing engagement and conversions multi-fold.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Mailmodo](https://www.mailmodo.com/){:target="_blank"} is an email marketing tool that focuses on bringing the interactive experience of the AMP framework to emails. It allows businesses to create emails with web page-like interactivity right inside the user inbox, thereby increasing engagement and conversions multi-fold.
```

> This destination is maintained by Mailmodo. For any issues with the destination, [contact the Mailmodo Support team](mailto:help@mailmodo.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mailmodo maintains this destination. For any issues with the destination, [contact the Mailmodo Support team](mailto:help@mailmodo.com).
```

## Getting Started

{% include content/connection-modes.md %}

1. From the Destinations catalog page in the Segment App, click **Add Destination**.

> 2. Search for "Mailmodo" in the Destinations Catalog, and select the "Mailmodo" destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Search for **Mailmodo** in the Destinations Catalog, and select the **Mailmodo** destination.
```

> 3. Choose which Source should send data to the "Mailmodo" destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Choose which Source should send data to the Mailmodo destination.
```

> 4. Go to the [Mailmodo Dashboard](https://manage.mailmodo.com/app/dashboard), navigate to **Settings > API Keys**, then create a new API Key and copy the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Go to the [Mailmodo Dashboard](https://manage.mailmodo.com/app/dashboard){:target="_blank"} and navigate to **Settings > API Keys**, then create a new API Key and copy it.
```

> 5. Enter the "API Key" in the "Mailmodo" destination settings in Segment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Enter the API Key in the Mailmodo destination settings in Segment.
```

## Supported methods

Mailmodo supports the following methods, as specified in the [Segment Spec](/docs/connections/spec).

### Identify

> If you aren’t familiar with the Segment Spec, take a look at the [Identify method documentation](/docs/connections/spec/identify) to learn about what it does.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take a look at the [Identify method documentation](/docs/connections/spec/identify) to learn about what it does.
```

```js
analytics.identify('userId12345', {
  firstName: 'Bob',
  lastName: 'Dole',
  email: 'bob.dole@example.com',
  company: 'Initech',
  employees: 234
});
```

> Every time you call identify with an email address included, Mailmodo:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every time you make an identify call with an email address included:
```

> 1.	Verifies that the email exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.	Mailmodo verifies that the email exists.
```

> 2.	If the email doesn’t exist, Mailmodo adds the user as a Contact to the Mailmodo database and matches user properties with the Segment `traits` sent in identify call payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.	If the email doesn’t exist, Mailmodo adds the user as a contact to the Mailmodo database and matches user properties with the Segment `traits` sent in the identify call payload.
```

> 3.	If the email exists, Mailmodo updates the user properties for the Contact against the Segment `traits` sent in identify call payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.	If the email exists, Mailmodo updates the user properties for the Contact against the Segment `traits` sent in the identify call payload.
```

> All the [special traits](/docs/connections/spec/identify#traits) recognized by Segment will be translated and matched with the Mailmodo user properties for a Contact. These fields will be automatically created or mapped for a Contact in Mailmodo and will be available for personalization and advance segmentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the [special traits](/docs/connections/spec/identify#traits) recognized by Segment are translated and matched with the Mailmodo user properties for a Contact. These fields are automatically created or mapped for a Contact in Mailmodo and are available for personalization and advance segmentation.
```

> info "How Mailmodo handles incoming email addresses"

> > 1. The email field is required. Identify calls without an email are dropped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> * The email field is required. Mailmodo drops identify calls without an email.
```

> > 2. If different email addresses are sent against same user id in identify call, Mailmodo treats them as two different contacts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> * If different email addresses are sent against the same user ID in identify call, Mailmodo treats them as two different contacts.
```

### Track

> If you aren’t familiar with the Segment Spec, take a look at the [Track method documentation](/docs/connections/spec/track) to learn about what it does. An example call would look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take a look at the [Track method documentation](/docs/connections/spec/track) to learn about what it does. An example call looks like:
```

```js
analytics.track('Product Viewed', {
  product_id: '507f1f77bcf86cd799439011',
  name: 'Monopoly: 3rd Edition',
  price: 18.99,
  url: 'https://www.example.com/product/path',
  image_url: 'https://www.example.com/product/path.jpg'
});
```

> Segment sends `Track` calls to Mailmodo as a Custom Event. When you call  track, Segment sends the event to Mailmodo with the event name and all properties that you specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Segment sends `Track` calls to Mailmodo as a Custom Event. When you call track, Segment sends the event to Mailmodo with the event name and all properties that you specified.
```

> Be sure you send an Identify call for any user who will trigger Track calls. If Mailmodo receives a Track call for an unknown userId, the call is dropped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be sure you send an Identify call for any user who triggers Track calls. If Mailmodo receives a Track call for an unknown userId, the call drops.
```
